Database Interview: 

Normal   Form	Fixes	           Key Rule
1NF	    Repeating data	       Atomic values only
2NF	    Partial dependency	   Full key dependency
3NF	    Transitive dependency	 Only depend on PK

1NF ensures atomic values, 2NF removes partial dependencies on composite keys, and 3NF eliminates transitive dependencies so that every non-key attribute depends only on the primary key.

DB connection pool metrics (HikariCP in Java).

We once saw connection pool exhaustion caused not by traffic increase, but by mTLS certificate mismatch across pods. Some services had rotated certificates while others still served old ones, causing intermittent TLS handshake failures. 
Since TLS handshake is expensive and blocking, failed connections held HTTP pool slots for several seconds, slowly draining the pool. This created cascading timeouts and thread blocking. 
The fix involved synchronizing certificate rollout, adding readiness probes for cert validity, and tightening HTTP client timeouts to fail fast instead of blocking connections.

What is the Difference Between ROW_NUMBER, RANK, and DENSE_RANK?
Answer: These three functions are used for ranking rows in SQL queries but differ in how they handle ties.

ROW_NUMBER(): Assigns a unique sequential integer to each row, with no ties. For example, if you have three rows, they would be numbered 1, 2, 3.
RANK(): Assigns the same rank to tied rows but skips ranks for subsequent rows. For instance, if two rows are tied for first place, they would both be ranked 1, and the next row would be ranked 3.
DENSE_RANK(): Similar to RANK, but it does not skip ranks. If two rows tie for first place, they both receive a rank of 1, and the next row is ranked 2.

Summary of Ranks:
ROW_NUMBER: 1, 2, 3
RANK: 1, 1, 3
DENSE_RANK: 1, 1, 2

17. How do you implement batch processing in JDBC?
Answer:
Batch processing in JDBC allows you to execute multiple SQL statements in a single batch, reducing the number of database round-trips. You use the `addBatch()` method to add statements to the batch and `executeBatch()` to execute them.

String sql = "INSERT INTO users (username, password) VALUES (?, ?)";
PreparedStatement preparedStatement = connection.prepareStatement(sql);
for (int i = 1; i <= 1000; i++) {
 preparedStatement.setString(1, "user" + i);
 preparedStatement.setString(2, "pass" + i);
 preparedStatement.addBatch();
}
int[] updateCounts = preparedStatement.executeBatch();

22. What are some common performance issues in JDBC?
Answer: Common performance issues in JDBC include:
- Connection management: Creating and closing database connections for each query can be costly.
- Inefficient queries: Poorly written SQL queries that retrieve more data than necessary.
- Lack of batching: Executing SQL statements one by one instead of in batches.
- Improper resource management: Not closing `ResultSet`, `Statement`, and `Connection` objects, leading to resource leaks.
- Underutilized PreparedStatement: Not using `PreparedStatement` for repetitive queries, leading to inefficient execution plans.

Ques: Why Not IN does work with NULL ?
Ans: NOT IN fails because SQL treats NULL as UNKNOWN in three-valued logic. If the subquery contains even one NULL, the comparison becomes UNKNOWN for all rows, and WHERE filters it out. 
That’s why NOT EXISTS is preferred, as it evaluates existence per row and is not affected by NULL contamination.

=> Calling static method using null reference works.
=> Abstraction hides implementation details and shows only essential behavior. It focuses on what an object does, not how it does it.

Question: Is it allowed to mark a method abstract as well as final?
Answer: No
Reason:
  abstract → must be overridden
  final → cannot be overridden
Both contradict each other

Question: What can be use instead of Marker interfacec ?
Answer: Instead of marker interfaces, we use annotations. Marker interfaces were used to tag classes, but they lack flexibility and cannot carry metadata. 
Annotations like @Auditable provide a more powerful and extensible way to attach metadata to classes, which can be processed at runtime using reflection or at compile time by frameworks like Spring. 
They also avoid forcing inheritance, making the design more flexible and decoupled.

Question: What version of Python did you use ?
Answer: 3.9.10

Question: What libraries did u use from Pyhton ?
Answer: requests -> http requests to Spring boot application
os -> to read performanc data file generated from disk 
mimetypes -> to find out the extension of image downloaded from Grafana
logging, warning = to log the messages
urlParse = 

Question: How do you identify whether issue is in software and hardware ?
Answer: I approach this by isolating system layers and validating each independently. First, I reproduce the issue and determine if it’s consistent or environment-specific. 
Then I analyze logs and telemetry—application, system, and hardware.

I often use substitution techniques, like replacing hardware or mocking dependencies, to isolate the fault. 
For example, I’ve built mock servers to remove external dependencies and verify whether the issue lies in the integration or the core system.

Generally, inconsistent or environment-specific issues point to hardware, while deterministic failures indicate software bugs.

Ques: Why is try catch expensive ?
Ans: The expensive part is: Throwing and creating exceptions. This is a very important Java interview concept.

Database Indexing:

Indexing creates memory location and column is stored in sorting order. It will also get updated on write operation.

1. We read execution plan from right to left and top to right.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YuRO9-rOgv4

Clustered Index:
=> Root Node  - Index Rows
=> Intermediate nodes - Index Rows
=> Leaf nodes = contain Table(Shot) data in pages sorted by primary id - Data Rows

Non Clustered Index on name column:
=> Root Node, Intermediate nodes = Key Values
=> Leaf Nodes = Row Locators. => Stores name and clustered key

Estimated Sub-tree cost : from execution plan.
=> B-tree is used as 
=> O(N) -> O(logN)
=> used only read intensive

2.Clustered Index
- A clustered index determines the physical order of data in the table.
- The actual table rows are stored in the same order as the clustered index.

Characteristics:
- Only ONE clustered index per table
- Because data can only be physically ordered one way
Usually created on: Primary Key

A non-clustered index is a separate structure from the actual table data.

It stores:
- indexed column
- pointer/reference to actual row

Think of: book index pointing to page numbers

First, I clearly understand the functional and non-functional requirements such as scalability, performance, availability, security, expected traffic, and integration needs.

Then I decide the architecture style — usually layered monolith or microservices depending on domain complexity and scaling requirements.

After that, I design the database schema and relationships, identify important queries, and plan indexes early to avoid performance bottlenecks later.

Next, I define REST API contracts, request/response models, validation rules, and error handling standards.

Then I create the Spring Boot project structure with proper separation of concerns such as controller, service, repository, DTO, entity, configuration, exception handling, and utility layers.

I implement business logic in service layer, keep controllers thin, and use JPA or appropriate persistence strategy for data access.

I also configure security using Spring Security with JWT/OAuth2 depending on requirements.

For production readiness, I add centralized logging, monitoring, health checks, retries, circuit breakers, caching, and externalized configuration.

Finally, I add unit/integration tests, containerize using Docker, configure CI/CD pipelines, and deploy to cloud/Kubernetes environments.

Ques: How to retreive data efficiently ?
Ans: Efficient data retrieval is usually a combination of proper indexing, optimized queries, caching, pagination, minimizing network overhead, and understanding access patterns. The best solution depends 
on whether the system is read-heavy, write-heavy, transactional, or analytics-oriented.

Ques: Why we need JavaScript, TypeScript and React ?
Ans: JavaScript is the core programming language. TypeScript improves JavaScript by adding static typing and compile-time validation, which is especially valuable in large applications. React, on the other hand, is a UI library that simplifies building dynamic and 
maintainable user interfaces through component-based architecture and declarative rendering. React solves frontend complexity that plain JavaScript alone becomes difficult to manage at scale.

-------------- Hibernate 2nd Level Cache ----------------------
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vKFxm9u68o
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79s1d16ZltU

--------- Database Connection Pooling --------------
I identify DB connection issues by looking for connection timeout exceptions, pool exhaustion warnings, authentication failures, and network-related disconnects in logs. I also correlate application logs with connection pool metrics and database logs to determine 
whether the issue is due to slow queries, leaked connections, infrastructure problems, or database availability.

I increase DB connections gradually based on metrics rather than guessing. First I check whether the application is truly connection-starved or whether slow queries and long transactions are exhausting the pool. In most Spring Boot applications using HikariCP, a pool size 
between 10 and 30 per instance is sufficient. Increasing connections beyond DB capacity can actually reduce throughput due to contention and context switching.

