- Bind exchange with queue with routing key 
-  key controls which messages go to Queue
- messageConverter to convert the java object to jsona and vice-versa.
- We have to tell everytime, which exchange and whihc key we are sending message to.
- RabbitTemplate is not needed in Consumer beause it is not sending the messages just consuming it.
- Admin set up is also not needed in Consumer only in producer.

@RabbitListener = to pull messages from the queue.

“Message delivery in RabbitMQ is ensured using multiple mechanisms: publisher confirms guarantee the broker received the message, durable queues and persistent messages ensure data survives broker restarts, and consumer acknowledgements ensure messages are only removed
after successful processing. In case of failure, messages are re-queued or moved to dead letter queues. This provides at-least-once delivery, and consumers must be idempotent to handle duplicates safely.”

A binding is a relationship + routing rule between an exchange and a queue.

Ques: When to use Kafka over ActiveMQ ?
Ans: “Kafka is preferred over RabbitMQ when we need high-throughput, distributed event streaming with the ability to replay messages and retain event history for a longer time. It is better suited for event-driven architectures, 
analytics pipelines, and log processing, whereas RabbitMQ is better for traditional message queuing and task-based communication.”

Ques: How to configure kafka?
Ans: spring.kafka.bootstrap-servers=localhost:9092

spring.kafka.consumer.group-id=order-group
spring.kafka.consumer.auto-offset-reset=earliest
spring.kafka.consumer.key-deserializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer
spring.kafka.consumer.value-deserializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringDeserializer

spring.kafka.producer.key-serializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer
spring.kafka.producer.value-serializer=org.apache.kafka.common.serialization.StringSerializer

Kafka configuration in Spring Boot includes bootstrap servers for cluster connectivity, consumer group ID for load balancing and parallel processing, offset reset strategy to define 
starting point for message consumption, and serializers/deserializers to convert between Java objects and Kafka’s byte format. These configurations enable producers and consumers to 
communicate reliably with the Kafka cluster.
